=head1 NAME

prank - Computes probabilistic multiple sequence alignments

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<prank> I<sequence_file>

B<prank> [optional parameters] -d=I<sequence_file> [optional parameters]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Probabilistic Alignment Kit (PRANK) is a probabilistic multiple alignment
program for DNA, codon and amino-acid sequences. It's based on a novel algorithm
that treats insertions correctly and avoids over-estimation of the number of
deletion events.

In addition, PRANK borrows ideas from maximum likelihood methods used in
phylogenetics and correctly takes into account the evolutionary distances
between sequences. Lastly, PRANK allows for defining a potential structure for
sequences to be aligned and then, simultaneously with the alignment, predicts
the locations of structural units in the sequences.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETERS

=over 8

=item B<-d=I<sequence_file>>

The input sequence file in FASTA format.

=item B<-t=I<tree_file>>

The tree file to use. If unset, an appriximated NJ tree is generated.

=item B<-o=I<output_file>>

Set the name of the output file. If unset, I<output_file> is set to B<output>.

=item B<-f=I<output_format>>

Set the output format. I<output_format> can be one of B<fasta> (default),
B<phylipi>, B<phylips>, B<paml>, or B<nexus>.

=item B<-m=I<model_file>>

The model file to use. If unset, I<model_file> is set to B<HKY2/WAG>.

=item B<-support>

Compute posterior support.

=item B<-showxml>

Output alignment xml-file.

=item B<-showtree>

Output alignment guidetree.

=item B<-noanchors>

Do not use Exonerate anchoring. (Exonerate to be installed separately.)

=item B<-shortnames>

Truncate names at first space character.

=item B<-quiet>

Reduce output.

=back

=head2 MODEL PARAMETERS

=over 8

=item B<-F>, B<+F>

Force insertions to be always skipped.

=item B<-gaprate=I<#>>

Set the gap opening rate. The default is B<0.025> for DNA and B<0.005> for
proteins.

=item B<-gapext=I<#>>

Set the gap extension probability. The default is B<0.75> for DNA and B<0.5> for
proteins.

=item B<-codon>

Use empirical codon model for coding DNA.

=item B<-DNA>, B<-protein>

Use DNA or protein model, respectively. Disables auto-detection of model.

=item B<-termgap>

Penalise terminal gaps normally.

=item B<-nomissing>

No missing data. Use B<-F> for terminal gaps.

=item B<-e>

Do not remove gaps from pre-aligned sequences.

=back

=head2 OTHER PARAMETERS

=over 8

=item B<-once>

Run only once. The default is to run twice if no guidetree is given.

=item B<-twice>

Run twice always.

=item B<-prunetree>

Prune guide tree branches with no sequence data.

=item B<-uselogs>

Slower but should work for a greater number of sequences.

=item B<-translate>

Translate input data to protein sequences.

=item B<-mttranslate>

Translate input data to protein sequencess using mt table.

=item B<-convert>

Do not align, just convert to a different format.

=item B<-help>

Show an extended help page with more options.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

B<prank> was written by Ari Loytynoja.

This manual page was written by Manuel Prinz <manuel@debian.org> for the Debian
project (and may be used by others).

=cut
